`noasync` availability kind (#1512)
apple/swift-evolution: proposals/NNNN-swift-noasync.md

such pitfall is the undefined behaviour from unlocking a `pthread_mutex_t` from
a different thread than the thread that holds the lock, locking threads may
easily cause unexpected deadlocks, and reading from and writing to thread-local
storage across suspension points may result in unintended behaviour that is
difficult to debug.

## Proposed Solution

We propose extending `@available` to accept a `noasync` availability kind.
The `noasync` availability kind is applicable to most declarations, but is not
allowed on destructors as those are not explicitly called and must be callable
from anywhere.

```swift
@available(*, noasync)
func doSomethingNefariousWithNoOtherOptions() { }

@available(*, noasync, message: "use our other shnazzy API instead!")
func doSomethingNefariousWithLocks() { }

func asyncFun() async {
  // Error: doSomethingNefariousWithNoOtherOptions is unavailable from
  //        asynchronous contexts
  doSomethingNefariousWithNoOtherOptions()

  // Error: doSomethingNefariousWithLocks is unavailable from asynchronous
  //        contexts; use our other shanzzy API instead!
  doSomethingNefariousWithLocks()
}
```

> Using an annotated API from an asynchronous context results in an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using an API annotated with the `noasync` availability kind from an asynchronous context will result in an error.
```

Author: Done

In certain cases, it is possible to use the API safely within an asynchronous

> context, but not across suspension points. The attribute is only checked in the
> immediate context, so an unavailable function call wrapped in a synchronous
> context will not emit the error. This allows functions to wrap the behaviour and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
context, but not across suspension points. The attribute only prevents uses where
the immediate context is `async`. So if an unavailable function is called from a 
synchronous function wrapper, that is not an error, despite the wrapper itself being
called from an async context. This allows functions to limit the `noasync` behaviour to
```

Author: Re-worded this paragraph a bit. Wasn't a huge fan of the flow.

function can be implemented as an extension of an actor.

```swift
@available(*, noasync, renamed: "mainactorReadID()", message: "use mainactorReadID instead")
func readIDFromThreadLocal() -> Int { }

@MainActor
func readIDFromMainActor() -> Int { readIDFromThreadLocal() }

func asyncFunc() async {
  // Bad, we don't know what thread we're on
  let id = readIDFromThreadLocal()

  // Good, we know it's coming from the main actor on the main thread.
  // Note that we have to jump to the main actor, so there is a suspension.
  let id = await readIDFromMainActor()
}
```

Custom executors are a goal for the language in the future. Restricting an API
to a custom executor is achieved in the same way that restricting the API to a
global actor is done. In many ways, they are the same thing. An actor ensures
that methods and operations on that actor are done on the executor for that
actor. By setting the `unownedExecutor` of an actor to the desired executor and
creating a wrapper function for the restricted API in that actor, the restricted
API is now only available for use from asynchronous contexts on that actor, and

> in extension, that executor.

Reviewer: Is the example below meant to show an `IOActor` with a custom executor and how that interacts with `noasync`? If so, maybe this discussion (and the example) should be a Future Directions sort of section. The example should also have a comment saying to assume that it's not an ordinary actor, etc.

Author: Yeah, I was going back-and-forth on whether it belonged in a `future work` section. It's not really a future direction of this proposal, but just how it will interact with future proposals since it came up in the discussion on the forum.

Author: Done
